LUZ CIVIC TERMINAL 0.4.0
Mod manager and launcher for Nivalis Nights

UPDATING LUZ
Maintenance > LUZ updates checks GitHub and installs newer releases.
Automatic checks run at startup, at most once per day. Installing an update
verifies the download, preserves your profiles and restarts only LUZ.
Users on 0.3.x must install this version manually once to receive the updater.

AFTER A GAME PATCH
Maintenance > After a game update can diagnose saved errors and back up/refresh
BepInEx game bindings. Close the game before refreshing. Mods that require an
older game build need a compatible mod update; LUZ does not bypass their checks.

DOWNLOAD ONE VERSION

Windows PC: win-x64.zip.
Linux x64 desktop: linux-x64.zip. Experimental native build.
Mac with an Intel processor: osx-x64.zip. Experimental native build.
Mac with Apple Silicon (M-series): osx-arm64.zip. Experimental native build.

The Linux and Mac builds have been cross-built and package-checked. Native
desktop operation and gameplay on those systems still need testing.
Object Studio is a separate Windows application; it is not included here.

INSTALL THE TERMINAL

Windows
1. Right-click the ZIP and choose Extract All.
2. Open the extracted folder and run Install LUZ.exe.
3. Click Install and create shortcut, then open the desktop shortcut.

Linux
1. Extract the ZIP archive into a writable folder.
2. In that folder, run ./"Install LUZ" and click Install and create shortcut.
   If extraction lost executable permissions, run:
   chmod +x "Install LUZ" "LUZ Civic Terminal"
   Then run ./"Install LUZ" again.
3. Open the desktop shortcut. Your desktop may require Allow Launching.
   Requires a graphical glibc-based x64 desktop with X11/XWayland and
   xdg-open. Alpine/musl is not supported. See README.md for library details.

macOS 15 or newer
1. Extract the ZIP for your Mac's processor.
2. Run Prepare macOS.command once to apply a local ad-hoc signature.
   If Finder blocks the helper, open Terminal in the extracted folder and
   run: sh "Prepare macOS.command"
3. Run Install LUZ.command and click Install and create shortcut.
4. Open the desktop shortcut. This preview is not notarized. For a trusted
   copy, use macOS Privacy & Security > Open Anyway if required.

Keep the whole extracted folder together until installation finishes. Do not
run an executable inside the ZIP. .NET is included. Portable use is supported:
open LUZ Civic Terminal directly instead of the installer.

SET UP NIVALIS AND BEPINEX

1. Close Nivalis. Open Maintenance in LUZ.
2. Check Game location. If it is missing or wrong, choose the folder that
   contains Nivalis Nights.exe. In Steam, Manage > Browse local files shows it.
3. Already have mods? Choose Import existing installation BEFORE applying
   any profile. Select your intended profile first. This copies installed
   plugins, patchers and settings into LUZ; it does not change the game.
4. Under BepInEx setup, choose Install recommended BepInEx and confirm.
   LUZ downloads BepInEx 6.0.0-be.788, Windows x64 IL2CPP, from the official
   server. It backs up replaced loader files and preserves mods/settings.
   Internet access is required. BepInEx is not bundled in this download.
5. On a first-time BepInEx installation, start the game yourself, let its
   first-run generation finish, then close it before applying mods.

The optional Check latest official build button checks for a newer upstream
build. It is a separate choice; the recommended build is the default.
Do not import a BepInEx ZIP through Import ZIP / DLL; use BepInEx setup.

Nivalis is a Windows game on every host. On Linux it needs working Steam Proton;
on macOS it needs a working Wine/CrossOver setup. LUZ does not install or test
those compatibility layers. Always use Windows x64 IL2CPP BepInEx for this game.

For Proton, merge this into the game's Steam Launch Options:
WINEDLLOVERRIDES="winhttp=n,b" %command%
For Wine/CrossOver, set winhttp to native, then builtin in the game's bottle.
On macOS, set Maintenance > Game launch to your existing launcher executable
or script. Use one literal argument per line, without shell quoting. See the
complete platform instructions and official BepInEx link in README.md.

INSTALL MODS

The browser/manual route works without a Nexus API key:
1. Download a Nivalis mod ZIP from its page. Read its requirements.
2. In Registry, choose Import ZIP / DLL and select the ZIP without extracting it.
3. Confirm the destination profile and enable the mod. Import its dependencies
   too. A DLL alone may be missing files that its complete ZIP includes.
4. Choose Auto-sort, then inspect any Profile issues in Mod details.
5. With the game closed, choose Apply profile and confirm the proposed change.
6. When ready, choose Play Nivalis or start through your usual launcher.

Import changes the library/profile. Apply changes the game. Play starts it.
Apply replaces deployed plugins and patchers with this profile's enabled mods.
Do not apply an empty profile if you meant to keep your existing installation.

Catalogue can also download Thunderstore packages and declared dependencies.
Nexus lookup/download features require your own API key and the permissions
available to your Nexus account. They do not bypass download restrictions.
If a page only offers Manual Download, download the ZIP and import it as above.
LUZ cannot make a missing Mod Manager Download button appear on Nexus.

PROFILES, UPDATES AND SORTING

Use New for an empty profile or Copy to keep the current mods and settings.
Switch profiles with Active profile; Apply profile makes that selection live.
Drag the dotted handles to change file priority, or use Move up/down.
Lower rows win overlapping files. Auto-sort orders declared dependencies;
BepInEx determines plugin startup order itself.

For updates, import the new ZIP or use Check updates and review the offered
files. Apply profile again. Pin this version excludes a mod from update checks.
Modders' packs and mods may need additional dependencies that LUZ cannot infer.

OBJECT STUDIO COLLECTIONS

For game build 25726588, use Object Framework Runtime 0.3.2 in the same profile.
Future game patches may require a newer runtime.
Send to LUZ in Studio builds the open project and opens an import confirmation.
Confirm it, then Apply profile. Importing a new build updates the same project.
The Studio SDK is an authoring application; do not import its ZIP as a game mod.

IF APPLY PROFILE IS GREYED OUT

Read the blocking issue in the sidebar and Mod details. A missing or older
dependency must be updated in the LUZ PROFILE, even if you manually updated the
game folder. Import the required runtime/mod ZIP and enable it there. Also
check the game location, close the game and wait for current work to finish.
If deployment was interrupted, use the recovery option before applying again.

UPDATING OR REMOVING LUZ

Use Maintenance > LUZ updates, or close LUZ, extract the new release into a
new folder and run its installer.
The shortcut changes to the new version. Your separate profile/library data
stays in place. Do not mix executable files from different versions.
Windows installs refresh an existing LUZ browser-download registration.
Register again after moving a portable copy or updating on Linux/macOS.
To stop using LUZ, your last applied game files can remain installed. Keep its
data folder if you want your profiles, downloaded packages and restore points.

BACKUPS AND HELP

Apply creates mod/config restore points. Maintenance > Restore profile backup
restores one. BepInEx uses a separate Restore loader backup action.
Save games are not backed up or switched by LUZ. Keep your own save backups,
particularly before removing object/content mods used by a save.

If LUZ does not show a window, use 0.3.1 or newer: those versions fix the older
windowless-process deadlock. Close an older running instance before updating.
For a report, include your OS, LUZ version, steps and the exact error. Use
Maintenance > Export diagnostics and review the ZIP before sharing it.

README.md contains the full Nexus/NXM, key storage, recovery, platform and
package-format reference. Required third-party license notices are in Notices.
